Some years ago, the watchtower quoted a religion writer who said,
we no longer see ourselves as sinners in need of forgiveness.
Maybe sin used to be a problem, but now we've outgrown that.
So while the church has a solution for the problem of sin,
it's a non-problem in the eyes of most Americans.
Now that statement was made about 25 years ago,
and today, many more people around the world share that view.
What is sin? How is it related to freedom?
And why is it still a problem, even for us as Christians?
In his letter to the Romans, the Apostle Paul discusses the power of sin
and how we can control it.
The Bible says that all unrighteousness is sin,
and that includes anything that disturbs our relationship with Jehovah.
Paul explains in Romans 5 and 12 that through one man Adam,
sin entered into the world and death through sin,
and so death spread to all men because they had all sinned.
Then he adds in chapter 7,
for I do not do the good that I wish,
but the bad that I do not wish is what I practice.
And if we're honest, all of us have to admit that the same has been true for us.
Sin is not just what we do or what we don't do.
The inside book explains that it is also a governing principle
or force that operates inside of us.
And that's a scary thought when you think about it.
Paul describes in his letter sin as a law that is trying to control our actions.
He calls it a king that gives orders in different ways to different persons at different times.
And these vivid analogies that Paul uses are intended to help us understand just how powerful,
how relentless inherited sin really is.
That power quickly became evident after Adam and Eve were expelled from the Garden of Eden.
In Genesis 4, when Jehovah accepted Abel's sacrifice but rejected Keynes,
the Bible tells us that Keynes became very angry and dejected.
Now, Keynes didn't realize that the intense feelings he was experiencing
were not merely the natural human emotions he was created with.
It was the sin that he inherited from his parents that was trying to control him.
So Jehovah immediately explained this to Keynes.
He warned him of the potential consequences.
He said, sin is crouching at the door, Keynes, and its craving is to dominate you.
But will you get the mastery over it?
Sadly, as we know, Keynes did not listen to Jehovah and he allowed that sin to get control or mastery over him.
And eventually, he killed his own brother.
To set a John 8 and 34, that every doer of sin is a slave of sin.
There's no escaping that.
We don't outgrow this problem of sin as we get older.
And we're foolish to simply ignore it.
Sin is the worst kind of slavery that humans have experienced.
Not only can it mislead us into doing what's bad,
but it can also prevent us from doing what we know to be right
or from living up to what we know we're capable of in God's sight.
That brings to our mind Paul's painful admission at Romans 7.
You know it well, but please turn in your Bibles with me there now.
And let's read his familiar words together again there in verses 21 through 24.
Who of us does not identify with the daily struggle that Paul describes here, verse 21?
I find then this law in my case, when I wish to do what is right, what is bad is present with me.
I really delight in the law of God according to the man I am within.
But I see in my body another law warring against the law of my mind
and leading me captive to sin's law that is in my body.
Miserable man that I am, who will rescue me from the body undergoing this death?
By the time that Paul wrote this letter, he had been in the truth for over 20 years.
He served as an apostle to the nations for almost 10 of those years
and yet sin was still crouching at his door. It was still trying to dominate him.
What weaknesses did Paul have to overcome?
Well, we don't know for sure, but he did write to Timothy once that he had formerly been an insolent man.
And before his conversion, he said he was extremely mad at the Christians and persecuted them.
Obviously, Paul learned to control his temper after becoming a Christian,
but there were still times when he struggled to control his feelings and his words.
On one occasion, the Bible says there was a sharp burst of anger between him and his close companion, Barnabas.
As Paul says, on our own, we are helpless to control the sin inside of us.
And yet, the situation is not hopeless.
Jesus promised that John 8 and 36, if the sun sets you free, you will be truly free.
Let's keep reading in verse 25 of Romans 7.
Paul concludes by saying, thanks to God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
So then with my mind I am, I myself am a slave to God's law, but with my flesh to sin's law.
Because he accepted Jehovah's arrangement for salvation, Paul was set free from slavery to King Sin and his sidekick death.
What a release that was for Paul. You can almost hear the sigh of relief in those words.
Well, what sinful tendencies are you fighting right now, brothers and sisters?
Is it envy like cane or perhaps your temper like Paul?
Or is there some other bad attitude or habit that you just can't seem to kick?
Well, don't be discouraged. Like Paul, we all have our battle with sin.
The solution to the problem of sin is this.
Put faith in the ransom and do your best to keep walking by spirit.
The ransom makes it possible for us to serve Jehovah God with a clean conscience.
What a gift that is.
And Romans 8 and 2 Paul says, for the law of the spirit that gives life in union with Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death.
What does it mean to walk in God's spirit?
Well, it means making steady spiritual advancement.
It does not mean striving for spiritual perfection, which is something we can't do right now.
Day by day, to the best of our ability, we try to walk or live our life in accord with the leadings of God's Holy Spirit.
Sin is real. It's serious. It's not just a made up concept to keep our behavior in check.
And it includes anything that disturbs our relationship with God.
We all start out life as a slave of sin. But with Jehovah's help, Paul says we can get free from its control and keep sin from gaining the upper hand.
It's a real privilege, brothers and sisters, to be serving alongside men and women like you who are fighting that battle successfully every day.
Please keep up the fight. If possible, keep doing it more fully. We can do this. Let's do it together.
By the end of Christ's thousand-year reign, Jesus will vanquish King Sin once and for all time.
What a joy that will be. We will then enjoy what Romans 8 and 21 says,
the glorious freedom of the sons of God. Imagine. We'll never again have to ask Jehovah for forgiveness of our sins.
We'll be able to say to Jehovah every day like Jesus does, I always do the things pleasing to you.
What an incredible experience that will be. I can't wait. That's the way to true freedom.